FIRST SECTION
CASE OF BANCSÓK AND LÁSZLÓ MAGYAR (no. 2) v. HUNGARY
(Applications nos. 52374/15 and 53364/15)
JUDGMENT
Art 3 • Inhuman and degrading punishment • Life sentences for applicants
whose eligibility for release is reviewable only after serving forty years, not
regarded as reducible despite ability to seek presidential clemency without
limitation
STRASBOURG
28 October 2021
This judgment will become final in the circumstances set out in Article 44 § 2 of the
Convention. It may be subject to editorial revision.

BANCSÓK AND LÁSZLÓ MAGYAR (no. 2) v. HUNGARY JUDGMENT
1
In the case of Bancsók and László Magyar (no.2) v. Hungary,
The European Court of Human Rights (First Section), sitting as a
Chamber composed of:
Ksenija Turković, President,
Péter Paczolay,
Krzysztof Wojtyczek,
Alena Poláčková,
Gilberto Felici,
Lorraine Schembri Orland,
Ioannis Ktistakis, judges,
and Renata Degener, Section Registrar,
Having regard to:
the applications (nos. 52374/15 and 53364/15) against Hungary lodged
with the Court under Article 34 of the Convention for the Protection of
Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (“the Convention”) by two
Hungarian nationals, Mr József Bancsók and Mr László Magyar (“the
applicants”), on 7 October 2015 and 20 October 2015 respectively;
the decision to give notice to the Hungarian Government (“the
Government”) of the complaints concerning the applicants’ life sentences
and to declare the remainder of the applications inadmissible;
the parties’ observations;
Having deliberated in private on 5 October 2021,
Delivers the following judgment, which was adopted on that date:
INTRODUCTION
1. The cases concern the applicants’ sentences of life imprisonment with
the possibility of release on parole once they have served a forty-year term.
The applicants complained that their sentences constituted inhuman and
degrading punishment, in breach of Article 3 of the Convention.
THE FACTS
2. Mr Bancsók (“the first applicant”) was born in 1979. Mr Magyar (“the
second applicant”) was born in 1960 and is detained in Tiszalök Prison. The
first applicant was represented before the Court by Ms E. Kadlót, a lawyer
practising in Budapest. The second applicant was represented by Mr D.A.
Karsai, a lawyer practising in Budapest.
3. The Government were represented by their Agent, Mr Z. Tallódi, of
the Ministry of Justice.
4. The facts of the cases, as submitted by the parties, may be
summarised as follows.
BANCSÓK AND LÁSZLÓ MAGYAR (no. 2) v. HUNGARY JUDGMENT
2
I. THE FIRST APPLICANT
5. The first applicant was found guilty of murder by the Budapest
Surroundings High Court on 18 June 2013. The court held that he would be
eligible for release on parole once he had served forty years’ imprisonment.
His sentence was upheld on appeal by the Budapest Court of Appeal on
22 April 2015.
6. On 24 July 2015 the first applicant lodged a constitutional complaint
against that judgment. He argued that setting the earliest date of his release
once a term of forty years had been served was contrary to the case-law of
the Court and constituted inhuman treatment.
7. The Constitutional Court declared the complaint admissible on
22 February 2016. The proceedings are still pending.
II. THE SECOND APPLICANT
8. The second applicant was sentenced on 28 September 2010 to life
imprisonment without eligibility for parole under Article 40 § 1 and
Article 47/A of Act no. IV of 1978 on the Criminal Code (as in force at the
material time). In László Magyar v. Hungary (no. 73593/10, 20 May 2014)
the Court found a violation of Article 3 of the Convention on the grounds
that the applicant’s life sentence could not be regarded as reducible for the
purposes of Article 3 of the Convention.
9. Following the Court’s judgment, both the second applicant’s legal
representative and the public prosecutor applied to the Kúria for a review of
the final judgment. The public prosecutor requested that the Kúria set the
earliest date for release on parole in the applicant’s case once a term of
thirty years had been served.
10. In the meantime, the Hungarian Parliament enacted Act no. LXXII
of 2014 (which entered into force on 1 January 2015), prescribing
mandatory clemency proceedings for prisoners sentenced to life
imprisonment without eligibility for release on parole.
11. Accordingly, the public prosecutor amended the application before
the Kúria, arguing that with the introduction of the mandatory clemency
proceedings, Hungary had fulfilled its international obligations. It thus
requested the Kúria to maintain the second applicant’s life sentence without
eligibility for parole, but to make it subject to mandatory clemency
proceedings once forty years of the sentence had been served. The second
applicant argued, referring to the Court’s case-law, that the mandatory
clemency proceedings after forty years’ imprisonment – as enacted through
Act no. CCXL of 2013 – did not remedy the breach of Article 3 of the
Convention. He requested the Kúria to set the date of his eligibility for
parole after twenty-five years of his sentence had been served. In judgment
no. BfV.II.1812/2014/7 of 11 June 2015, the Kúria found the following:
BANCSÓK AND LÁSZLÓ MAGYAR (no. 2) v. HUNGARY JUDGMENT
3
“Pursuant to Article 47/A of the Criminal Code as in force at the time when the
offence was committed, the trial court was to set the earliest date of eligibility for
parole or to exclude any eligibility for parole. Having regard to the above, the breach
of the Convention can be remedied by omitting from the final judgment a reference to
the exclusion of release on parole and by setting the earliest date of eligibility for
parole.”
12. The Kúria thus upheld the second applicant’s life sentence but held
that he was eligible for release on parole. It set the earliest date for release
on parole after forty years of the sentence had been served. It found that this
period was capable both of remedying the breach of the Convention and
fulfilling the goals of punishment in respect of the second applicant – a
multiple recidivist who had committed several of the gravest violent crimes
against persons in vulnerable situations.
13. On 16 October 2015 the second applicant lodged a constitutional
complaint against that judgment. Relying on the judgment delivered by the
Court in his own case and in T.P. and A.T. v. Hungary (nos. 37871/14
and 73986/14, 4 October 2016), he argued that setting the earliest date of his
release once a term of forty years had been served was contrary to
Hungary’s obligations under the Convention.
14. The Constitutional Court declared the complaint admissible on
21 March 2016. The proceedings are still pending.
RELEVANT LEGAL FRAMEWORK AND PRACTICE
15. Act no. IV of 1978 on the Criminal Code (as in force from 1 March
1999 until 30 June 2013, when it was replaced by Act no. C of 2012 on the
Criminal Code) provided as follows:
Imprisonment
Article 40
“1. Imprisonment shall last for life or for a fixed duration.
...”
Release on parole
Article 47/A
“1. If a life sentence is imposed, the court shall define in the judgment the earliest
date of eligibility for parole or it shall exclude eligibility for parole.
2. If eligibility for parole is not excluded, the earliest date of release on parole shall
be after a term of twenty years has been served, or at least a term of thirty years if the
life sentence was imposed for a criminal act that is punishable without a statute of
limitations.
3.1
 Release on parole can be excluded in respect of the following offences: if the
offence has been committed with violence against a person or an object; the offence of
1
 Enacted by Act no. CL of 2011.
BANCSÓK AND LÁSZLÓ MAGYAR (no. 2) v. HUNGARY JUDGMENT
4
attempting to overturn the constitutional order by force (Article 139 § 1); aggravated
sabotage (Article 142 § 2); genocide (Article 155 § 1); apartheid (Article 157 §§ 1
and 3); aggravated violence against the civilian population (Article 158 § 2); war
crimes (Article 160); use of weapons prohibited by an international convention
(Article 160/A § 1); aggravated violence against a war emissary (Article 163 § 2);
aggravated murder (Article 166 § 2); aggravated kidnapping (Article 175/A §§ 3
and 4); aggravated trafficking in human beings (Article 175/B § 5); aggravated public
endangerment (Article 259 § 3); terrorism (Article 261 § 1); aggravated seizure of
aircraft, any means of rail, water or road transport or any means of freight transport
(Article 262 § 2); aggravated insubordination (Article 352 §§ 3 and 4); aggravated
violence against a superior or a law-enforcement officer (Article 355 § 5); aggravated
compromising of combat readiness (Article 363 § 2); breach of duty by a commander
(Article 364); or desertion (Article 365).”
16. The relevant parts of Act no. C of 2012 on the Criminal Code (as in
force from 1 July 2013) read as follows:
Imprisonment
Article 34
“Imprisonment shall be imposed for a fixed duration or for a life term.”
Life imprisonment
Article 41
“1. Only persons over the age of 20 at the time of the commission of the criminal
act may be sentenced to life imprisonment.
...”
Release on parole from life imprisonment
Article 42
“In the event that a sentence of life imprisonment is imposed, the court shall specify
the earliest date of eligibility for parole or shall exclude any eligibility for parole.”
Article 43
“1. If the court does not exclude any eligibility for parole, the court shall set the
earliest date of eligibility for parole after a term of twenty-five years has been served
and the latest after forty years.
...”
17. The relevant parts of Act no. CCXL of 2013 on the Execution of
Punishments, Measures, Certain Coercive Measures and Detention for
Regulatory Offences, as amended by Act no. LXXII of 2014, in force as of
1 January 2015, read as follows:
BANCSÓK AND LÁSZLÓ MAGYAR (no. 2) v. HUNGARY JUDGMENT
5
Section 57
“...
(8) If the prison judge does not release on parole an offender sentenced to life
imprisonment, eligibility for release on parole shall be examined after two years, at
the latest, and every year thereafter ...”
Section 188
“(1) A person sentenced to imprisonment may be released on parole if:
(a) if, on the basis of the prisoner’s exemplary conduct as demonstrated during
imprisonment, and the ability to maintain such conduct, it can be presumed that the
aim of the punishment can be achieved without further deprivation of liberty; and
(b) in the case of a fixed-term prison sentence, the term set in Article 38 § 2 of the
Criminal Code or in the judgment convicting the person has been served; or, in the
case of life imprisonment, the term set by the court based on Article 43 § 1 of the
Criminal Code has been served.
...”
18. Act No. CLI of 2011 on the Constitutional Court (hereinafter “the
Constitutional Court Act”) provides, in so far as relevant, as follows:
Section 26
“(1) Under Article 24 § 2(c) of the Fundamental Law, persons or organisations
affected by a particular case may submit a constitutional complaint to the
Constitutional Court if, as a result of the application of a law contrary to the
Fundamental Law in the court proceedings conducted in their case,
(a) their rights secured under the Fundamental Law were violated; and
(b) the possible remedies have already been exhausted or no possible remedies
exist.
(2) By way of derogation from subsection (1), Constitutional Court proceedings
may, exceptionally, also be initiated where:
(a) as a result of the application of, or the coming into effect of, a legal provision
contrary to the Fundamental Law, a violation of the rights [of persons referred to in
subsection (1)] has occurred directly, without a court decision; and
(b) no possible remedy to redress the violation exists, or the petitioner has already
exhausted the possible remedies.”
Section 27
“Under Article 24 § 2(d) of the Fundamental Law, a person or organisation affected
by a court decision contrary to the Fundamental Law may lodge a constitutional
complaint with the Constitutional Court where the decision on the merits of the case
or another decision terminating the court proceedings
(a) violates their rights secured under the Fundamental Law; and
(b) the possible remedies have already been exhausted by the petitioner or no
possible remedies are available.”
BANCSÓK AND LÁSZLÓ MAGYAR (no. 2) v. HUNGARY JUDGMENT
6
THE LAW
I. JOINDER OF THE APPLICATIONS
19. Having regard to the similar subject matter of the applications, the
Court finds it appropriate to examine them jointly in a single judgment.
II. ALLEGED VIOLATION OF ARTICLE 3 OF THE CONVENTION
20. The applicants complained that their sentences of life imprisonment,
with the possibility of release on parole after serving forty years, remained
de facto irreducible, in breach of Article 3 of the Convention, which reads
as follows:
“No one shall be subjected to torture or to inhuman or degrading treatment or
punishment.”
A. Admissibility
21. The Government invited the Court to reject the applications on the
ground that the applicants had failed to exhaust domestic remedies as
required under Article 35 § 1 of the Convention. They submitted that the
applicants had lodged constitutional complaints under section 27 of the
Constitutional Court Act, which had constituted an effective remedy for
their alleged grievances, and the proceedings were still pending before the
Constitutional Court.
22. The first applicant argued that a constitutional complaint could not
be regarded as an effective remedy. He submitted that, although he had
lodged a constitutional complaint, this was not because he had considered
such proceedings to be capable of remedying his situation. Moreover, the
proceedings had been pending for years and he could not be expected to
wait further for the outcome of the proceedings before the Constitutional
Court.
23. The second applicant argued that the Government had failed to
submit any relevant case-law substantiating that a constitutional complaint
constituted an effective remedy in the case of life-imprisonment. In any
event, he had lodged a constitutional complaint on 16 October 2015 and the
proceedings were still pending. In his view, owing to this unprecedented
delay, that legal avenue was ineffective in practice in his case.
24. The Court has previously found that a constitutional complaint under
section 27 of the Constitutional Court Act represents an effective remedy to
be used for the purposes of Article 35 § 1 of the Convention in situations
where the application concerns Convention rights that are equally protected
by the Fundamental Law of Hungary (see Szalontay v. Hungary (dec.),
no. 71327/13, 12 March 2019). On the other hand, the Court reiterates that 
BANCSÓK AND LÁSZLÓ MAGYAR (no. 2) v. HUNGARY JUDGMENT
7
the speed of the procedure for remedial action may also be relevant to
whether it is practically effective in the particular circumstances of a given
case for the purposes of Article 35 § 1 of the Convention (see Story
and Others v. Malta, nos. 56854/13 and 2 others, § 80, 29 October 2015,
and Mikalauskas v. Malta, no. 4458/10, § 50, 23 July 2013).
25. In this connection, the Court does not consider it necessary to decide
in abstracto whether the remedy relied on by the Government satisfies the
requirements of Article 35 § 1 in respect of life imprisonment under
Articles 34 and 43 of the Criminal Code.
26. In the instant case it is sufficient to note that the proceedings before
the Constitutional Court in respect of the applicants’ complaints have been
pending since 2015. At this point in time, such a delay undermines the
potential effectiveness of the remedy in question (see, for comparison,
Longin v. Croatia, no. 49268/10, §§ 38-41, 6 November 2012).
27. It follows that the Government’s objection concerning the nonexhaustion of domestic remedies must be dismissed.
28. The Court notes that the applications are neither manifestly illfounded nor inadmissible on any other grounds listed in Article 35 of the
Convention. They must therefore be declared admissible.
B. Merits
1. The parties’ submissions
(a) The applicants
29. The applicants submitted that life imprisonment with a possibility of
release on parole after a forty-year term had been served amounted in
practice to a whole life sentence. The forty-year term to be served before
being eligible for conditional release corresponded to the term that whole
life prisoners had to serve before having access to mandatory clemency
proceedings. The fact that all life prisoners served their terms under the
same prison regime was further evidence that there was no de facto
distinction between the two types of life sentence.
30. The applicants pointed out that the possibility of release could not be
considered real if it was so distant that it would only allow the prospect of
dying in a care facility or a hospice. Having regard to their age, they simply
would not live long enough to be eligible for release on parole, and thus any
change in their behaviour would be irrelevant for the purpose of being
eligible for release. In this sense their sentences were purely punitive and
did not serve any resocialisation purpose.
31. The applicants maintained that the punitive element of punishment
was only relevant at the time of sentencing, whereas the review of such
sentences was to focus on reintegration or the threat that the offender posed
to society. In their view, the forty-year term to be served before being 
BANCSÓK AND LÁSZLÓ MAGYAR (no. 2) v. HUNGARY JUDGMENT
8
considered for release on parole went beyond the State’s margin of
appreciation.
32. As regards the ordinary pardon proceedings, the applicants asserted
that this avenue did not result in the de facto or de jure reducibility of their
life sentence.
(b) The Government
33. The Government submitted that the applicants’ life sentences were
reducible both de jure and de facto; they had not been deprived of all hope
of being released from prison one day. The Government argued that the
applicants’ sentences were therefore compatible with Article 3 of the
Convention.
34. The Government pointed out that sentencing fell under the general
criminal policy of the Contracting States, in which context they were
accorded a wide margin of appreciation.
35. As to the applicants’ contention that the forty-year term was contrary
to the Court’s case-law on this issue, the Government argued that the
reference to a twenty-five-year term in the Court’s case-law could not be
interpreted as the Court prescribing when a review of life imprisonment
should take place. The forty-year period first of all corresponded to the
retribution phase of a whole life sentence and was proportionate to the
circumstances of the offence concerned, including, among other things, its
gravity, the danger it posed to society and the offender’s criminal liability.
The Government submitted that conditional release could only be envisaged
once the retribution phase of the sentence had been served and that any
conditional release was subject to an assessment of whether maintaining an
offender’s imprisonment could still be justified by any legitimate aim of
punishment.
36. Furthermore, the Government asserted that the establishment of the
retribution phase of imprisonment at forty years could be compared to a
lengthy (fixed-term) prison sentence of up to forty-five or fifty years, as was
possible in some Council of Europe member States.
37. The Government also maintained that the age of the applicants was
irrelevant in assessing whether life imprisonment constituted inhuman
punishment.
38. Lastly, referring to Törköly v. Hungary ((dec.), no. 4413/06, 5 April
2011), the Government submitted that before the expiry of the forty-year
period, the applicants could avail themselves of the general pardon
procedure, whereby a pardon could be granted by the President of Hungary,
affording them the possibility of release if extraordinary circumstances
deserving special consideration existed.
BANCSÓK AND LÁSZLÓ MAGYAR (no. 2) v. HUNGARY JUDGMENT
9
2. The Court’s assessment
(a) General principles
39. In Murray v. the Netherlands ([GC], no. 10511/10, 26 April 2016),
the Court reiterated and further developed its previous case-law concerning
the need for life sentences to be de facto reducible (see also T.P. and A.T.
v. Hungary, cited above; Kafkaris v. Cyprus [GC], no. 21906/04,
ECHR 2008; Vinter and Others v. the United Kingdom [GC], nos. 66069/09
and 2 others, ECHR 2013 (extracts); and László Magyar, cited above).
40. In particular, it reiterated that the imposition of a sentence of life
imprisonment on an adult offender was not in itself prohibited by or
incompatible with Article 3 or any other Article of the Convention. A life
sentence could remain compatible with Article 3 of the Convention only if
there was both a prospect of release and a possibility of review, both of
which had to exist from the imposition of the sentence (see Murray, cited
above, § 99, and Vinter and Others, cited above, §§ 104-18 and 122).
41. Furthermore, having regard to the margin of appreciation which
must be accorded to Contracting States in matters of criminal justice and
sentencing, it is not the Court’s task to prescribe the form – executive or
judicial – which that review should take, or to determine when that review
should take place. However, comparative and international-law material
shows clear support for the institution of a dedicated mechanism
guaranteeing a review no later than twenty-five years after the imposition of
a life sentence, with further periodic reviews thereafter (see Vinter
and Others, cited above, § 120; see also Harakchiev and Tolumov v.
Bulgaria, nos. 15018/11 and 61199/12, § 246, ECHR 2014 (extracts), and
Murray, cited above, § 99). Where domestic law does not provide for the
possibility for such a review, a whole life sentence will not measure up to
the standards of Article 3 of the Convention (see Vinter and Others, cited
above, § 121).
(b) Application of those principles to the present case
42. In Hungary, the penalty of life imprisonment can take the form of a
whole life sentence without the possibility of parole and is reserved for
offences that are particularly serious. It exists alongside the penalty of
“simple” life imprisonment, as in the present case, which affords the
possibility of the conditional release of the prisoner (Article 42 of the
Criminal Code; see paragraph 16 above). Article 43 of the Criminal Code
provides for the possibility of the conditional release of life prisoners after
they have served a certain portion of their term. The minimum term to be
served before an offender can be released on parole is to be set between the
statutory minimum of twenty-five years and the maximum of forty years in
the judgment convicting the offender. If the prison judge refuses to
commute the offender’s sentence of life imprisonment to probation, 
BANCSÓK AND LÁSZLÓ MAGYAR (no. 2) v. HUNGARY JUDGMENT
10
eligibility for release must be re-examined after a further two years, and on
a yearly basis thereafter.
43. Furthermore, the requirements which a person sentenced to a prison
term must fulfil in order to be conditionally released are set out in
section 188 of Act no. CCXL of 2013 on the Execution of Punishments,
Measures, Certain Coercive Measures, and Detention for Regulatory
Offences; satisfactory compliance with those requirements is subject to
assessment by a court (see paragraph 17 above).
44. Thus, national law and practice afford the possibility of a dedicated
judicial review of the life sentence imposed on the applicants. However, in
the present case, the applicants could be eligible for release after having
served forty years of their term. It remains to be determined whether the
review mechanism in the case of the applicants satisfies the criteria set out
in the Court’s case-law.
45. In that connection, the Court notes that the forty years during which
the applicants must wait before they can for the first time expect to be
considered for release on parole is a significantly longer period than the
maximum recommended time frame after which the review of a life
sentence should be guaranteed, established on the basis of a consensus in
comparative and international law (see Vinter and Others, cited above,
§ 120, and T.P. and A.T., cited above, § 45). It is also hardly comparable
with the twenty-six-year period that the applicant in Bodein v. France
(no. 40014/10, 13 November 2014) had to wait before being eligible to
apply for parole (see paragraph 42 above; see also Bodein, cited above,
§ 61).
46. Finally, in so far as the Government relied on the fact that, even
before the lapse of the forty years required for eligibility for release on
parole, a life prisoner could seek presidential clemency in ordinary pardon
proceedings without any limitation, the Court has already found that a
possibility of being granted a pardon or release on compassionate grounds
for reasons related to ill health, physical incapacity or old age does not
correspond to the notion of “prospect of release” (see Vinter and Others,
cited above, § 127).
47. In sum, the fact that the applicants in the present case can hope to
have their progress towards release reviewed only after they have served
forty years of their life sentences is sufficient for the Court to conclude that
the applicants’ life sentences cannot be regarded as reducible for the
purposes of Article 3 of the Convention. Such a long waiting period unduly
delays the domestic authorities’ review of “whether any changes in the life
prisoner are so significant, and such progress towards rehabilitation has
been made in the course of the sentence, as to mean that continued detention
can no longer be justified on legitimate penological grounds” (see Vinter
and Others, cited above, § 119).
BANCSÓK AND LÁSZLÓ MAGYAR (no. 2) v. HUNGARY JUDGMENT
11
48. There has accordingly been a violation of Article 3 of the
Convention.
III. APPLICATION OF ARTICLE 41 OF THE CONVENTION
49. Article 41 of the Convention provides:
“If the Court finds that there has been a violation of the Convention or the Protocols
thereto, and if the internal law of the High Contracting Party concerned allows only
partial reparation to be made, the Court shall, if necessary, afford just satisfaction to
the injured party.”
A. Damage
50. The first applicant claimed 30,000 euros (EUR) in respect of nonpecuniary damage. The second applicant claimed EUR 10,000 in respect of
non-pecuniary damage.
51. The Government found these claims excessive.
52. The Court considers that its finding of a violation constitutes
sufficient just satisfaction and accordingly makes no award under this head.
B. Costs and expenses
53. The first applicant claimed EUR 3,000 in respect of the costs and
expenses incurred before the Court. The second applicant claimed
EUR 8,000 plus value-added tax (VAT) in respect of the costs and expenses
incurred before the domestic courts. This sum corresponds to forty hours of
legal work billable by his lawyer at an hourly rate of EUR 200 plus VAT.
He also claimed EUR 2,600 plus VAT in respect of expenses incurred
before the Court. This sum corresponds to thirteen hours of legal work
billable by his lawyer at an hourly rate of EUR 200 plus VAT.
54. The Government contested these claims.
55. According to the Court’s case-law, an applicant is entitled to the
reimbursement of costs and expenses only in so far as it has been shown
that these were actually and necessarily incurred and are reasonable as to
quantum. In the present case, regard being had to the documents in its
possession and the above criteria, the Court considers it reasonable to award
the sum of EUR 3,000 to the first applicant for the proceedings before the
Court, plus any tax that may be chargeable to him. It also considers it
reasonable to award the sum of EUR 10,600 to the second applicant
covering costs under all heads, plus any tax that may be chargeable to him.
BANCSÓK AND LÁSZLÓ MAGYAR (no. 2) v. HUNGARY JUDGMENT
12
C. Default interest
56. The Court considers it appropriate that the default interest rate
should be based on the marginal lending rate of the European Central Bank,
to which should be added three percentage points.
FOR THESE REASONS, THE COURT, UNANIMOUSLY,
1. Decides to join the applications;
2. Declares the applications admissible;
3. Holds that there has been a violation of Article 3 of the Convention;
4. Holds that the finding of a violation constitutes in itself sufficient just
satisfaction for any non-pecuniary damage sustained by the applicants;
5. Holds
(a) that the respondent State is to pay to the applicants, within three
months from the date on which the judgment becomes final in
accordance with Article 44 § 2 of the Convention, the following
amounts, to be converted into the currency of the respondent State at
the rate applicable at the date of settlement:
(i) EUR 3,000 (three thousand euros) to the first applicant, plus any
tax that may be chargeable to him, in respect of costs and
expenses;
(ii) EUR 10,600 (ten thousand six hundred euros) to the second
applicant, plus any tax that may be chargeable to him, in respect
of costs and expenses;
(b) that from the expiry of the above-mentioned three months until
settlement simple interest shall be payable on the above amounts at a
rate equal to the marginal lending rate of the European Central Bank
during the default period plus three percentage points;
6. Dismisses the remainder of the applicants’ claim for just satisfaction.
Done in English, and notified in writing on 28 October 2021, pursuant to
Rule 77 §§ 2 and 3 of the Rules of Court.
Renata Degener Ksenija Turković
Registrar President
BANCSÓK AND LÁSZLÓ MAGYAR (no. 2) v. HUNGARY JUDGMENT
13
APPENDIX
List of Applicants
No. Application
no.
Case name Lodged on Applicant
Year of Birth
Place of Residence
1. 52374/15 Bancsók v.
Hungary
07/10/2015 József BANCSÓK
1979
Budapest
2. 53364/15 László Magyar v.
Hungary no. 2
20/10/2015 László MAGYAR
1966
Tiszalök